Where is this Hector ?
Come , come , thou boy-queller , show thy face ;
Know what it is to meet Achilles angry :
Hector ! where's Hector ? I will none but Hector .


Troilus , thou coward Troilus , show thy head !


Troilus , I say ! where's Troilus ?

What wouldst thou ?

I would correct him .

Were I the general , thou shouldst have my office 
Ere that correction . Troilus , I say ! what , Troilus !


O traitor Diomed ! Turn thy false face , thou traitor !
And pay thy life thou ow'st me for my horse !

Ha ! art thou there ?

I'll fight with him alone : stand , Diomed .

He is my prize ; I will not look upon .

Come , both you cogging Greeks ; have at you both !

Yea , Troilus ? O , well fought , my youngest brother !


Now I do see thee . Ha ! have at thee , Hector !

Pause , if thou wilt .

I do disdain thy courtesy , proud Trojan .
Be happy that my arms are out of use :
My rest and negligence befriend thee now ,
But thou anon shalt hear of me again ;
Till when , go seek thy fortune .


Fare thee well :
I would have been much more a fresher man ,
Had I expected thee . How now , my brother !


Ajax hath ta'en  neas : shall it be ?
No , by the flame of yonder glorious heaven ,
He shall not carry him : I'll be ta'en too ,
Or bring him off . Fate , hear me what I say !
I reck not though I end my life to-day .

Stand , stand , thou Greek ; thou art a goodly mark .
No ? wilt thou not ? I like thy armour well ;
I'll frush it , and unlock the rivets all ,
But I'll be master of it . Wilt thou not , beast , abide ?
Why then , fly on , I'll hunt thee for thy hide .


Come here about me , you my Myrmidons ;
Mark what I say . Attend me where I wheel :
Strike not a stroke , but keep yourselves in breath :
And when I have the bloody Hector found ,
Empale him with your weapons round about ;
In fellest manner execute your aims .
Follow me , sirs , and my proceedings eye :
It is decreed , Hector the great must die .

The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it . Now , bull ! now , dog ! 'Loo , Paris , 'loo ! now , my double-henned sparrow ! 'loo , Paris , 'loo ! The bull has the game : 'ware horns , ho !

Turn , slave , and fight .

What art thou ?

A bastard son of Priam's .

I am a bastard too ; I love bastards : I am a bastard begot , bastard instructed , bastard in mind , bastard in valour , in every thing illegitimate . One bear will not bite another , and wherefore should one bastard ? Take heed , the quarrel's most ominous to us : if the son of a whore fight for a whore , he tempts judgment . Farewell , bastard .


The devil take thee , coward !


Most putrefied core , so fair without ,
Thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life .
Now is my day's work done ; I'll take good breath :
Rest , sword ; thou hast thy fill of blood and death .

Look , Hector , how the sun begins to set ;
How ugly night comes breathing at his heels :
Even with the vail and darking of the sun ,
To close the day up , Hector's life is done .

I am unarm'd ; forego this vantage , Greek .

Strike , fellows , strike ! this is the man I seek .

So , Ilion , fall thou next ! now , Troy , sink down !
Here lies thy heart , thy sinews , and thy bone .
On ! Myrmidons , and cry you all amain ,
'Achilles hath the mighty Hector slain .' 

Hark ! a retreat upon our Grecian part .

The Trojan trumpets sound the like , my lord .

The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth ,
And , stickler-like , the armies separates .
My half-supp'd sword , that frankly would have fed ,
Pleas'd with this dainty bait , thus goes to bed .

Come , tie his body to my horse's tail ;
Along the field I will the Trojan trail .


Hark ! hark ! what shout is that ?

Peace , drums !


Achilles !
Achilles ! Hector's slain ! Achilles !

The bruit is , Hector's slain , and by Achilles .

If it be so , yet bragless let it be ;
Great Hector was a man as good as he .

March patiently along . Let one be sent 
To pray Achilles see us at our tent .
If in his death the gods have us befriended ,
Great Troy is ours , and our sharp wars are ended .

Stand , ho ! yet are we masters of the field .
Never go home ; here starve we out the night .


Hector is slain .

Hector ! the gods forbid !

He's dead ; and at the murderer's horse's tail ,
In beastly sort , dragg'd through the shameful field .
Frown on , you heavens , effect your rage with speed !
Sit , gods , upon your thrones , and smile at Troy !
I say , at once let your brief plagues be mercy ,
And linger not our sure destructions on !

My lord , you do discomfort all the host .

You understand me not that tell me so .
I do not speak of flight , of fear , of death ;
But dare all imminence that gods and men 
Address their dangers in . Hector is gone :
Who shall tell Priam so , or Hecuba ?
Let him that will a screech-owl aye be call'd 
Go in to Troy , and say there Hector's dead :
There is a word will Priam turn to stone ,
Make wells and Niobes of the maids and wives ,
Cold statues of the youth ; and , in a word ,
Scare Troy out of itself . But march away :
Hector is dead ; there is no more to say .
Stay yet . You vile abominable tents ,
Thus proudly pight upon our Phrygian plains ,
Let Titan rise as early as he dare ,
I'll through and through you ! And , thou great-siz'd coward ,
No space of earth shall sunder our two hates :
I'll haunt thee like a wicked conscience still ,
That mouldeth goblins swift as frenzy's thoughts .
Strike a free march to Troy ! with comfort go :
Hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe .

But hear you , hear you !

Hence , broker lackey ! ignomy and shame 
Pursue thy life , and live aye with thy name !


A goodly medicine for my aching bones ! O world ! world ! world ! thus is the poor agent despised . O traitors and bawds , how earnestly are you set a-work , and how ill requited ! why should our endeavour be so loved , and the performance so loathed ? what verse for it ? what instance for it ?Let me see !

Full merrily the humble-bee doth sing ,
Till he hath lost his honey and his sting ;
And being once subdu'd in armed tail ,
Sweet honey and sweet notes together fail .

Good traders in the flesh , set this in your painted cloths .

As many as be here of pander's hall ,
Your eyes , half out , weep out at Pandar's fall ;
Or if you cannot weep , yet give some groans ,
Though not for me , yet for your aching bones .
Brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade ,
Some two months hence my will shall here be made .
It should be now , but that my fear is this ,
Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss .
Till then I'll sweat , and seek about for eases ;
And at that time bequeath you my diseases

TWELFTH-NIGHT; OR WHAT YOU WILL

 
If music be the food of love , play on ;
Give me excess of it , that , surfeiting ,
The appetite may sicken , and so die .
That strain again ! it had a dying fall :
O ! it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound 
That breathes upon a bank of violets ,
Stealing and giving odour . Enough ! no more :
'Tis not so sweet now as it was before .
O spirit of love ! how quick and fresh art thou ,
That , notwithstanding thy capacity 
Receiveth as the sea , nought enters there ,
Of what validity and pitch soe'er ,
But falls into abatement and low price ,
Even in a minute : so full of shapes is fancy ,
That it alone is high fantastical .

Will you go hunt , my lord ?

What , Curio ?

The hart .

